[Maciel Calebe Vidal, Dr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macielvidal/). Análise de
Textos de Fontes Desestruturadas e Web. Insper, 2023.

# Web Text Analysis

> Much of the data generated by companies is unstructured. In this course we
> will introduce techniques and tools for extracting tabular and textual data
> from unstructured sources such as PDF files and WEB pages. In addition,
> students will learn how to generate value from identifying relevant
> information in documents by using natural language processing techniques,
> vector representation of words, in addition to using machine learning
> techniques to build classification models. We will use Python as the main
> language.

<p align="right">
    VIDAL, Maciel (2023)
</p>

## objectives

- Extract data from unstructured files like PDFs, images and web pages;
- Identify relevant information in textual corpus;
- Use machine learning techniques to analyze the extracted data.

## Requirements

Before you can use run the files in this project, you'll need to have the
following installed on your system:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/);
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/);
- [Jupyter extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter).

## Usage

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the cloned repository.
3. Run the following command to start the Jupyter Notebook server in a Docker
   container:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

4. Open the Command Palette (press `Ctrl+Shift+P` on Windows/Linux or
   `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac) and type "Jupyter: Specify local or remote Jupyter
   server for connections".
5. Select "Existing" from the list of options and enter `http://localhost:8888`.
6. Open a notebook file in Visual Studio Code.
7. Open the Command Palette again and type "notebook: Select Notebook Kernel".
8. Select the option with the name of the remote connection.
9. Start running cells.

## Security Considerations

By default, the Jupyter Notebook server is configured to run with authentication
tokens disabled and with the `_xsrf` check disabled. This makes it easier to get
started, but it also means that anyone with access to the server URL can connect
to the server and execute arbitrary code.

## Bibliography

Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Berthier Ribeiro-Neto, **Recuperação de Informação:
Conceitos e Tecnologia das Máquinas de Busca**, 2ª ed., Bookman, 2013, ISBN
978858260048 Livro Impresso

Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper, **Natural language processing with
Python: analyzing text with the natural language toolkit**, 2ª ed., O'Reilly,
2014, ISBN 978149191342 Livro Impresso

RUSSEL, Matthew A., **Minning the social web**, 2ª ed., O'Reilly, 2014, ISBN
978144938834 Livro Impresso

## License

This code is MIT Licensed! [See the LICENSE file](LICENSE) for details.
